update: optimized Package.resolved sync behavior and API (#671)
JetBrains/kotlin-multiplatform-dev-docs: topics/development/multiplatform-spm-import.md

import swiftPMImport.groupName.subproject.FIRApp
```

## Generated `Package.resolved` files

> To make builds that depend on Swift packages more stable, SwiftPM import tooling introduces a locking mechanism:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make builds that depend on Swift packages more stable, the SwiftPM import tooling introduces a locking mechanism with
```

> `Package.resolved` files are generated for each subproject during the initial package resolution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Package.resolved` files. They are generated for each subproject during the initial package resolution.
```

> By default, these files are merged into a single `Package.resolved` file placed as part of a synthetic package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, these files are merged into a single `Package.resolved` file place inside a synthetic package
```

in the `.swiftpm-locks/default/swiftImport` directory.
This shared lock file is then used to build the project, making sure that all subprojects use the same versions of Swift packages.
You can customize lock-file merging behavior by [grouping subprojects or excluding them from synchronization](#customize-aggregation-of-swift-package-versions).

> The lock file should be committed to your repository to make sure that all builds use the same dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should commit the lock file to your repository to ensure that all builds use the same dependencies.
```

> To simplify file management, you can commit the entire `.swiftpm-locks` directory to your repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To simplify file management, you can commit the entire `.swiftpm-locks` directory to your repository.
```

> only the `Package.resolved` files are crucial for dependency synchronization,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although only the `Package.resolved` files are crucial for dependency synchronization,
```

> but having the rest of the directory can speed up resolution during the first build. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
having the entire directory can speed up resolution during the first build. 
```

The lock files are updated automatically when you change the set or versions of SwiftPM dependencies in your build scripts.
You can also [force an update of a lock file manually](#force-an-update-of-the-lock-file).

### Customize aggregation of Swift package versions

Instead of using the `default` group for all subprojects,
you can define custom groups to generate a separate `Package.resolved` lock file for each group.

The merge behavior is controlled by the `packageResolvedSynchronization` option in the `swiftDependencies {}` block:

```kotlin
kotlin {
    swiftDependencies {
        // When no value is set for `packageResolvedSynchronization`, 
        // the subproject is assigned a default group identifier

>         // as if it was set like this: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // as if it were set like this: 
```

        // packageResolvedSynchronization = identifier("default")
    }
}
```

> To customize this, assign a non-default identifier of a group to each subproject.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To customize the merge behavior, assign a non-default group identifier to each subproject.
```

> For example, subprojects `one` and `two` use the same custom set of package versions, while `three` uses the default:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, subprojects `one` and `two` use the same custom set of package versions, while subproject `three` uses the default one:
```

Reviewer: I got a bit lost here, does it mean that "subprojects `one` and `two` have the same set of package versions, so they have the same custom group identifier, while subproject `three` uses the default one:"?

Author: Yep, that's the tricky part, thanks!

<tabs>

> <tab title="First subproject">

Reviewer: Definitely minor, but maybe the tabs should also be named "Subproject one" as in the text above

```kotlin
// one/build.gradle.kts

kotlin {
    swiftDependencies {
        packageResolvedSynchronization = identifier("custom"),
        ...
    }
}
```
</tab>

<tab title="Second subproject">

```kotlin
// two/build.gradle.kts

kotlin {
    swiftDependencies {
        packageResolvedSynchronization = identifier("custom"),
        ...
    }
}
```

</tab>

<tab title="Third subproject">

```kotlin
// three/build.gradle.kts

kotlin {
    swiftDependencies {
        // The default identifier is used, as if the following is set:
        // packageResolvedSynchronization = identifier("default")
        ...
    }
}
```

</tab>

</tabs>

> If you'd like to turn off the synchronization mechanism for a subproject altogether,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you'd like to disable the synchronization mechanism for a subproject altogether,
```

Reviewer: just to be clear and in line with the next sentence

use a `noSynchronization()` call instead of `identifier()`:

```kotlin
kotlin {
    swiftDependencies { 
        // The Package.resolved file for this subproject
        // won't be merged with any other
        packageResolvedSynchronization = noSynchronization()
    }
}
```

> Subprojects with the synchronization disabled will have their own `Package.resolved` lock file,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subprojects with disabled synchronization will have their own `Package.resolved` lock file,
```

placed in the subproject directory next to the `build.gradle.kts` file.

Just like with the default synchronization, all `Package.resolved` files for customized subprojects
should be committed to your repository.

### Force an update of the lock file

> If you want to force an update of a lock file manually:

Reviewer: is the word 'force' necessary here? maybe just "To manually update the lock file,..."

Author: I wanted to highlight the fact that there shouldn't be any need to do that, any changes to Gradle files should be automatically reflected in the lock files — but if something goes wrong you can force the update process. I feel that if we simply write that you can update the lock file manually it would seem like a regular use case when it's more of a fail-safe.
